welcome to the coolest stuff on the
planet greetings and welcome to the
podcast
I am course Rachel and my name is
Matthew good to see you and this is the
cool stuff on the planet
nice little podcast where we travel a
little bit so today's topic takes us
back to Australia and not too far from
where we were before Matt it's that's
right because today's topic takes us to
the Northern Territory in a little town
called Alice Springs so Alice Springs is
a desert town famous for a very unusual
sporting event Rachel camel racing yes
it's a lot like Mario Kart except for
with humans and camels camel suspect
mm-hmm but we'll get to that in a minute
of course so specifically this race is
called the camel Cup it's been held in
the town since 1970 and it's got a head
of fun start actually it was started
because apparently to to to friends or
to to mates if you will there I guess
there was a bet and so they ended up
racing camels and in the creek bed that
runs through the town and so that's how
the event got a start and you might be
wondering wait a minute
camels in Australia something doesn't
seem right here well in case you weren't
aware as we were not aware
Australia is home to a sizable
population of camels I think the current
number is approaching a million yeah a
lot lot of camels yeah
so camels here's the story camels
brought to Australia in about the mid
19th century to help when they first
started kind of exploring the country
okay thought camel desert animal be good
for exploring mutation did we get out
there in the outback right so and that's
what they did there
imported from Afghanistan I think few
other countries and they were used for
that purpose until modern transportation
started to creep in you know railroads
and such and then they weren't needed
anymore so they released them out into
the outback mm-hmm so every July and I'm
the town of Alice Springs hostess camel
race called camel Cup they even have
there's a proper track a circular track
there spectator stands there food and
souvenirs stalls so it's kind of a
they're even jockeys that ride the
camels yeah jockeys yeah and you know
air quotes
although ride is kind of a loose term
for what they do okay it's more like
hang on yeah so yeah killed on for your
life yeah seriously because these aren't
docile animals we're talking about these
are snarling barking spitting animals
and they are very cooperative either
allegedly sorry camel whatever faction
then I'm and I'm hurting their feelings
right now
so when the race starts the camels might
take off like kind of a shot in the
right direction or they might refuse to
move or they might move in the opposite
direction or maybe they might hang a
left you know they could even buck their
riders off which tends to occur yeah I
mean it's kind of a crapshoot because
they're camels and they do it they won't
yeah that's right I'm gonna do it I
won't
it'll take no crap from nobody yeah so
but apparently that's what makes the
event really fun to watch and I can I
can understand that judging from what
I've seen it looks pretty funny um but
yeah people go to see this you know this
crazy event and whether or not they
think the jockeys are crazy or not you
know they still go to support them yeah
well the event which is sponsored by the
local Lions Club it's actually a charity
event and isn't supposed to be taken
seriously it's an excuse to raise funds
and well pretty much have a good time
watching people get thrown by spit upon
and generally abused what families try
to get camels to race properly yes and
there are other events at these at these
camel races including parades other
camel activities for children camel
spitting for kids
camel spitting for kids these is that
spit on camels yes you spit back it's
made up by Matt don't spit on camels the
winner of I guess the one who gets their
camel you know in the right direction
across the finish line its presented
with uh I think a good trophy from and
this is interesting from Afghan
ambassador who comes all the way I
assume from a larger city to Alice
Springs to present to kind preside over
the event and present the travel that's
interesting that's the end everybody and
if you're interested in learning more
about camels or Australia or camel
spitting we've got lots of content on
how stuff works calm if you're
interested in learning more about
history or how camels arrived in
Australia check out the stuff you missed
in history class podcast they've got now
an awesome episode on the early
exploration in Australia yeah it's
called in to the ghastly blank it's
interesting oh yes so have a wonderful
day everybody shame Queen
for more on this and thousands of other
topics visit howstuffworks.com and let
us know what you think
email travelpod cast at
howstuffworks.com don't forget to check
out our other podcasts free on itunes